## Git Status

As discussed in the previous scenario git status allows us to view the changes in the working directory and staging area compared to the repository.

Given the current repository running git status displays that a change has been made in our working directory to a previously committed file, committed.js, but has not yet been moved to the staging area.

## Git Diff

The command git diff enables you to compare changes in the working directory against a previously committed version. By default the command compares the working directory and the HEAD commit.

If you wish to compare against an older version then provide the commit hash as a parameter, for example git diff <commit>. Comparing against commits will output the changes for all of the files modified. If you want to compare the changes to a single file then provide the name as an argument such as git diff committed.js.

Protip
By default the output is in the combined diff format. The command git difftool will load an external tool of your choice to view the differences.

## Git Add
As in the previous scenario in order to commit a change it must first be staged using git add command.


Task
To proceed first stage your changes using git add

Protip
If you rename or delete files then you need to specify these files in the add command for them to be tracked. Alternatives you can use git mv and git rm for git to perform the action and include update the staging area.


## Staged Differences
Once the changes are in the staging area they will not show in the output from git diff. By default, git diff will only compare the working directory and not the staging area.

To compare the changes in the staging area against the previous commit you provide the staged parameter git diff --staged. This enables you to ensure that you have correctly staged all your changes



## Git Log

The command git log allows you to view the history of the repository and the commit log.

Protip
The format of the log output is very flexible. For example to output each commit on a single line the command is 
git log --pretty=format:"%h %an %ar - %s". More details can be found in the git log man page accessed using git log --help


Git Show
While git log tells you the commit author and message, to view the changes made in the commit you need to use the the command git show

Like with other commands, by default it will show the changes in the HEAD commit. Use git show <commit-hash> to view older changes.