## Cherry Picking

In this scenario we have a number of commits in the _newbranch which has created two html files. In this scenario we only care about changes to one of the files but if we merged the branch then we'd merge all five commits and the unwanted changes.

To merge individual commits we use the git cherry-pick <hash-id|ref> command. This behaves in a similar way to merge, if no conflicts exist then the commit will be automatically merged.

Task
Follow the steps below to merge the three commits we're interested in. We want to replay the commits in the order they happened in the original repository.

Cherrypick the commit with the message "Initial commit, no items"
Cherrypick the commit with the message "Initial list"
Cherrypick the commit with the message "Adding final items to the list"
Protip
We've used HEAD previously to indicate the tip of the current branch. You can refer across branches using the syntax _~#_. For example new_branch~3 refers to the second to-last commit in the branch, in this case it has the commit message "Initial commit, no items"


## Resolving Cherry Picking Conflict

In the same way the merging can result in conflicts so can cherry picking. You solve conflicts in the same way as with merging a branch either manually fixing the files or selecting theirs or ours via git checkout.

If you feel like you've made a mistake, you can stop and revert the pick using git cherry-pick --abort

Task
Cherry-pick the creation of the second list using git cherry-pick new_branch~1

This will result in a merge conflict. Resolve the conflict using git checkout and select the picked commit.

Continue when ready where we'll complete the cherry pick.


## Continuing Cherry Picking After Conflict

Once the conflicts have been resolved you can continue with the cherry pick using the command git cherry-pick --continue.

Similar to using merge, resolving a cherry-pick will result in a commit.

Task
Complete the cherry pick by first adding the previously conflicted item and then using the --continue option.

git add list2.html

git cherry-pick --continue

At this point the default editor, in this case vim, will pop up allowing you to edit the cherry-picked commit message to include details of the conflict and how it was resolved. To save and quit vim type :wq

