Kubernetes Sandbox for CKA  preparations - part 5

https://training.linuxfoundation.org/cka-program-changes-2020/

**Storage(10%)**

1. Understand [storage classes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/storage-classes/), [persistent volumes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/)

2. Understand [volume mode](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/#volume-mode), [access modes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/
#access-modes) and [reclaim policies](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/#reclaim-policy) for volumes

3. Understand [persistent volume claims](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/#persistentvolumeclaims) primitive

4. Know how to [configure applications with persistent storage](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-volume-storage/)

<details>Detailed links:

<summary>

### Understand Storage Classes, Persistent Volumes​
#### Storage classes


Storage classes in Kubernetes
https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/storage-classes/

Dynamic provisioning & storage classes in Kubernetes
https://kubernetes.io/blog/2017/03/dynamic-provisioning-and-storage-classes-kubernetes/

Change the default storage class
https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/change-default-storage-class/

Understanding Kubernetes storage basics
https://netapp-trident.readthedocs.io/en/stable-v18.07/kubernetes/operations/tasks/storage-classes.html

Managing storage classes
https://netapp-trident.readthedocs.io/en/stable-v18.07/kubernetes/operations/tasks/storage-classes.html

How to use custom storage classes in Kubernetes?
https://itnext.io/how-to-use-custom-storage-classes-in-kubernetes-edc568acfdfe

Persistent storage class configuration in Kubernetes
https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-in-kubernetes/stable/configure-storage-class

#### Persistent Volumes

Persistent volumes in Kubernetes
https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/

Introduction to Kubernetes Persistent Volumes
https://phoenixnap.com/kb/kubernetes-persistent-volumes

Configure a pod to use persistent volume for storage
https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-persistent-volume-storage/

Persistent Volumes example
https://kubernetesbyexample.com/pv/

Kubernetes Persistent Volumes
https://portworx.com/tutorial-kubernetes-persistent-volumes/

### Understand Volume Mode, Access Modes and Reclaim Policies for Volumes

Volume Mode in Kubernetes
https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/#volume-mode

#### Access Modes

Access Modes
https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/#access-modes

Kubernetes persistent volume Access mode
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/37649541/kubernetes-persistent-volume-accessmode

Access modes in Kubernetes
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/57798267/kubernetes-persistent-volume-access-modes-readwriteonce-vs-readonlymany-vs-read

#### Reclaim policies for Volumes

Reclaim policy of volume
https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/#reclaim-policy

Change the Reclaim Policy of a PersistentVolume
https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/change-pv-reclaim-policy/

How to set Reclaim Policy for PersistentVolumeClaim
https://medium.com/faun/kubernetes-how-to-set-reclaimpolicy-for-persistentvolumeclaim-7eb7d002bb2e

Kubernetes PVC Reclaim Policy
https://www.decodingdevops.com/kubernetes-pvc-reclaim-policy-tutorial/

### Understand Persistent Volume Claims Primitive

PersistentVolumeClaims
https://v1-16.docs.kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/#persistentvolumeclaims

What is PersistentVolumeClaim?
https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#persistentvolumeclaim

Introduction to PersistentVolumeClaims
https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/concepts/persistent-volumes#persistentvolumeclaims

Create a PersistentVolumeClaim
https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-persistent-volume-storage/#create-a-persistentvolumeclaim

Provisioning a Persistent Volume Claim
https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/ContEng/Tasks/contengcreatingpersistentvolumeclaim.htm

PVC – GitHub issue
https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/aws-efs-csi-driver/issues/123

### Know How to Configure Applications with Persistent Storage

Understanding Kubernetes storage basics
https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/containers?topic=containers-kube_concepts

Kubernetes Persistent Storage: Why, Where and How?
https://cloud.netapp.com/blog/kubernetes-persistent-storage-why-where-and-how

Persistent storage
https://kubernetes-on-aws.readthedocs.io/en/latest/user-guide/using-volumes.html

How volumes and storage work in Kubernetes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=inJ7YJ-jt8I

Why is storage on Kubernetes so hard?
https://softwareengineeringdaily.com/2019/01/11/why-is-storage-on-kubernetes-is-so-hard/

A complete storage guide for your Kubernetes storage problems
https://www.cncf.io/blog/2020/04/28/a-complete-storage-guide-for-your-kubernetes-storage-problems/

Get started provisioning storage in Kubernetes
https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux_atomic_host/7/html/getting_started_with_kubernetes/get_started_provisioning_storage_in_kubernetes

</summary>