Kubernetes Sandbox for CKA  preparations - part 2

You will learn how to 

a) create pods and services

b) create deployments, rollouts and rollbacks, scale applications

c) control limits and resources

d) placing pod on proper nodes, using daemonsets, taints, tolerations and affinity

https://training.linuxfoundation.org/cka-program-changes-2020/


**Workloads & Scheduling – 15%**

1. Understand deployments and how to perform rolling update and rollbacks
https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/manage-daemon/rollback-daemon-set/


2. Use ConfigMaps and Secrets to configure applications
https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-pod-configmap/
https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/inject-data-application/distribute-credentials-secure/


3. Know how to scale applications
https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/cluster-administration/manage-deployment/#scaling-your-application
https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/run-application/scale-stateful-set/


4. Understand the primitives used to create robust, self-healing, application deployments
https://kubernetes.io/docs/tutorials/kubernetes-basics/deploy-app/

 - [Replicaset](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/replicaset/)
 - [Deployments](https://v1-16.docs.kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/deployment/)
 - [Statefulsets](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/statefulset/)
 - [Daemonset](https://v1-16.docs.kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/daemonset/)


5. Understand how resource limits can affect Pod scheduling

[how resource limits can affect Pod scheduling](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/#how-pods-with-resource-requests-are-scheduled)
https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/assign-cpu-resource/
https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/assign-memory-resource/


6. Awareness of manifest management and common templating tools


  * [Kustomize](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/manage-kubernetes-objects/kustomization/)
    - [Kustomize Blog](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2018/05/29/introducing-kustomize-template-free-configuration-customization-for-kubernetes/)
  * [manage kubernetes objects](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/manage-kubernetes-objects/)
  * [Install service catalog using helm](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/service-catalog/install-service-catalog-using-helm/)
    - Non-k8s.io resource: CNCF Kubecon video: [An introduction to Helm - Bridget Kromhout, Microsoft & Marc Khouzam, City of Montreal](https://youtu.be/x2w6T0sE50w?list=PLj6h78yzYM2O1wlsM-Ma-RYhfT5LKq0XC)
   - Non-k8s.io resource: External resource: [templating-yaml-with-code](https://learnk8s.io/templating-yaml-with-code)



## Detailed links:


### Deployments

Deployments in Kubernetes
https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/deployment/


Kubernetes deployments: The ultimate guide
https://semaphoreci.com/blog/kubernetes-deployment


How Kubernetes deployments work?
https://thenewstack.io/kubernetes-deployments-work/


Kubernetes deployments: An introduction
https://www.bmc.com/blogs/kubernetes-deployment/

What is a Kubernetes deployment?

https://www.redhat.com/en/topics/containers/what-is-kubernetes-deployment

### Rolling update

Performing a rolling update
https://kubernetes.io/docs/tutorials/kubernetes-basics/update/update-intro/

Perform a rolling update on a DaemonSet
https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/manage-daemon/update-daemon-set/


Kubernetes rolling update configuration
https://www.bluematador.com/blog/kubernetes-deployments-rolling-update-configuration

Enable rolling updates in Kubernetes with zero downtime
https://medium.com/platformer-blog/enable-rolling-updates-in-kubernetes-with-zero-downtime-31d7ec388c81


Deployments and rolling updates in GKE
https://ravikirans.com/coursera/kubernetes-rolling-updates

### Rollback deployments

Perform a Rollback on a DaemonSet
https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/manage-daemon/rollback-daemon-set/

How do you rollback deployments in Kubernetes?
https://learnk8s.io/kubernetes-rollbacks

Rolling updates & Rollbacks using Kubernetes Deployments
https://www.linux.com/topic/cloud/rolling-updates-and-rollbacks-using-kubernetes-deployments/


### Use ConfigMaps and Secrets to Configure Applications

What are ConfigMaps in Kubernetes?
https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/configmap/

Ultimate Guide to ConfigMaps in Kubernetes
https://matthewpalmer.net/kubernetes-app-developer/articles/ultimate-configmap-guide-kubernetes.html

Kubernetes ConfigMaps and Secrets
https://medium.com/google-cloud/kubernetes-configmaps-and-secrets-68d061f7ab5b

An Introduction to Kubernetes Secrets and ConfigMaps
https://opensource.com/article/19/6/introduction-kubernetes-secrets-and-configmaps


Create and use ConfigMaps in Kubernetes
https://medium.com/@Alibaba_Cloud/how-to-create-and-use-configmaps-in-kubernetes-e6d1e0b150b4


ConfigMaps and Secrets: Configuring applications
https://livebook.manning.com/book/kubernetes-in-action/chapter-7/56

Configure a Pod to Use a ConfigMap
https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-pod-configmap/

Managing applications with ConfigMaps and secrets
https://ravikirans.com/coursera/manage-apps-configmaps


### Know How to Scale Applications

Scaling your application
https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/cluster-administration/manage-deployment/#scaling-your-application

Running multiple instances of your app
https://kubernetes.io/docs/tutorials/kubernetes-basics/scale/scale-intro/

Interactive tutorial – scaling your app
https://kubernetes.io/docs/tutorials/kubernetes-basics/scale/scale-interactive/


Autoscaling in Kubernetes
https://kubernetes.io/blog/2016/07/autoscaling-in-kubernetes/



Horizontal Pod Autoscaler
https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/run-application/horizontal-pod-autoscale/

Kubernetes autoscaling – 3 common methods explained
https://www.stackrox.com/post/2020/05/kubernetes-autoscaling-explained/


Scaling Kubernetes on application & infrastructure levels
https://jelastic.com/blog/scaling-kubernetes/

Scaling Kubernetes: Kubernetes-based event-driven autoscaling
https://cloudblogs.microsoft.com/opensource/2020/05/12/scaling-kubernetes-keda-intro-kubernetes-based-event-driven-autoscaling/

How to scale a deployment within a Kubernetes cluster
https://www.techrepublic.com/article/how-to-scale-a-deployment-within-a-kubernetes-cluster/


### Understand the Primitives Used to Create Robust, Self-healing, Application Deployments


What are Kubernetes API primitives?
https://cloudnative101.dev/lectures/kube-core-concepts/#kubernetes-api-primitives

Understand self-healing
https://multinode-kubernetes-cluster.readthedocs.io/en/latest/14-k8s-selfhealing.html

Kubernetes. Replication and self-healing
https://appfleet.com/blog/kubernetes-and-self-healing-micro-services/

How to develop self-healing apps: 4 key patterns
https://techbeacon.com/app-dev-testing/how-develop-self-healing-apps-4-key-patterns

True reliability requires self-healing nodes & managing infrastructure
https://jaxenter.com/kubernetes-self-healing-nodes-163501.html

Self-healing Kubernetes
https://devops.com/decoding-the-self-healing-kubernetes/

Decoding the self-healing Kubernetes: Step-by-step
https://www.msystechnologies.com/blog/decoding-the-self-healing-kubernetes-step-by-step-2/

Reliable, Self-Healing Kubernetes Explained
https://kublr.com/blog/reliable-self-healing-kubernetes-explained/

Self-Healing Applications with Kubernetes and Spring Boot
https://www.baeldung.com/spring-boot-kubernetes-self-healing-apps


### Understand How Resource Limits Can Affect Pod Scheduling

Understanding Kubernetes limits and requests by example
https://sysdig.com/blog/kubernetes-limits-requests/

Kubernetes best practices: Resource requests and limits
https://cloud.google.com/blog/products/gcp/kubernetes-best-practices-resource-requests-and-limits

Kubernetes Resources Requests and Limits 101
https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/#how-pods-with-resource-limits-are-run


Resource Quotas in Kubernetes
https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/policy/resource-quotas/


How Pods with resource limits are run
https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/#how-pods-with-resource-limits-are-run

### Pod scheduling

Understanding Kubernetes scheduler
https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/kube-scheduler/

How does the Kubernetes scheduler work?
https://jvns.ca/blog/2017/07/27/how-does-the-kubernetes-scheduler-work/

kube-scheduler
https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/kube-scheduler/#:~:text=Synopsis,Pod%20to%20a%20suitable%20Node.


Assigning pods to nodes
https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/assign-pod-node/

Scheduling framework
https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/scheduling-framework/

Advanced scheduling in Kubernetes
https://kubernetes.io/blog/2017/03/advanced-scheduling-in-kubernetes/

Configure multiple schedulers
https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/extend-kubernetes/configure-multiple-schedulers/

Implement advanced scheduling techniques with Kubernetes
https://thenewstack.io/implementing-advanced-scheduling-techniques-with-kubernetes/

Learn how resource limits can affect pod scheduling
https://kskilling.com/2019/09/12/certified-kubernetes-administrator-study-guide-scheduling-understand-how-resource-limits-can-affect-pod-scheduling/

### Awareness of Manifest Management and Common Templating Tools


What is a Kubernetes Manifest?
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/55130795/what-is-a-kubernetes-manifest

Deploy Kubernetes manifests
https://spinnaker.io/guides/user/kubernetes-v2/deploy-manifest/

The beginners guide to creating Kubernetes manifests
https://prefetch.net/blog/2019/10/16/the-beginners-guide-to-creating-kubernetes-manifests/

Kubernetes manifest task in Azure
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/pipelines/tasks/deploy/kubernetes-manifest?view=azure-devops

### Kubernetes templating tools

Templating YAML in Kubernetes with real code
https://learnk8s.io/templating-yaml-with-code

Simple Kubernetes templating
https://codefresh.io/docs/docs/deploy-to-kubernetes/kubernetes-templating/


Writing yet another Kubernetes templating tool
https://habr.com/en/post/437682/

Kubernetes state of application templating
https://www.openshift.com/blog/kubernetes-state-app-templating

Kustomize – The right way to do templating in Kubernetes
https://blog.stack-labs.com/code/kustomize-101/

Kuku – Kubernetes templating tool
https://github.com/xarg/kuku

