Kubernetes Sandbox for CKA  preparations - part 4


https://training.linuxfoundation.org/cka-program-changes-2020/

**Troubleshooting(30%)**

The exam will test your ability to troubleshoot different components in the cluster, list of pages below covers how to tackle the section:

1. [Evaluate cluster and node logging](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/cluster-administration/logging/)

2. [Understand how to monitor applications](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/debug-application-cluster/resource-usage-monitoring/)

3. [Manage container stdout & stderr logs](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/cluster-administration/logging/#logging-at-the-node-level)

4. [Troubleshoot application failure](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/debug-application-cluster/debug-application/)

   - [Pending or termintated pods](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/#troubleshooting)

5. [Troubleshoot cluster component failure](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/debug-application-cluster/debug-cluster/)

6. [Troubleshoot networking](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/debug-application-cluster/debug-cluster/)

   - [DNS troubleshooting](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/dns-debugging-resolution/)



Additional metarials:

https://dev.to/vikcodes/having-trouble-with-your-kubernetes-deployments-start-with-the-basics-4m02


https://learnk8s.io/troubleshooting-deployments

## Detailed links:


### Evaluate Cluster and Node Logging
Logging architecture
https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/cluster-administration/logging/

A practical guide to Kubernetes logging
https://logz.io/blog/a-practical-guide-to-kubernetes-logging/
A complete guide to Kubernetes logging

https://kubernetes.io/blog/2015/06/cluster-level-logging-with-kubernetes/


Cluster-level logging with Kubernetes
https://kubernetes.io/blog/2015/06/cluster-level-logging-with-kubernetes/

Cluster-level logging in Kubernetes with Fluentd
https://medium.com/kubernetes-tutorials/cluster-level-logging-in-kubernetes-with-fluentd-e59aa2b6093a

Managing cluster logs with IBM Log Analysis
https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/Log-Analysis-with-LogDNA?topic=Log-Analysis-with-LogDNA-kube

Collecting application logs on Kubernetes
https://timber.io/blog/collecting-application-logs-on-kubernetes/

Kubernetes logging through Logspout
https://documentation.solarwinds.com/en/Success_Center/loggly/Content/admin/kubernetes-logging-through-logspout.htm

### Understand How to Monitor Applications

Introduction to Kubernetes monitoring
https://rancher.com/blog/2018/2018-10-18-monitoring-kubernetes/
Tools for monitoring resources

https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/debug-application-cluster/resource-usage-monitoring/
Kubernetes monitoring best practices

https://logz.io/blog/kubernetes-monitoring/
A complete introduction to monitoring Kubernetes

https://newrelic.com/platform/kubernetes/monitoring-guide
9 top open-source tools for monitoring Kubernetes

Monitoring Kubernetes in production
https://sysdig.com/blog/monitoring-kubernetes/

#### Monitoring applications

Monitoring application performance in Kubernetes
https://blog.newrelic.com/engineering/monitoring-application-performance-in-kubernetes/

Monitoring applications on Kubernetes
https://convox.com/blog/k8s-monitoring-overview

Tips for monitoring Kubernetes applications
https://www.metricfire.com/blog/tips-for-monitoring-kubernetes-applications/

### Manage Container stdout & stderr Logs

Kubernetes – mount container stdout stderr logs
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/54915956/kubernetes-mount-container-stdout-stderr-logs

Collect logfiles inside the container
https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/12567

View logs for a container or service
https://docs.docker.com/config/containers/logging/

### Troubleshoot Application Failure

Troubleshoot Applications
https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/debug-application-cluster/debug-application/

Application Introspection and Debugging
https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/debug-application-cluster/debug-application-introspection/

How-to Guide: Debug a Kubernetes application
https://epsagon.com/development/how-to-guide-debugging-a-kubernetes-application/

GitHub: Troubleshooting Kubernetes apps
https://github.com/mhausenblas/troubleshooting-k8s-apps

Learn how to troubleshoot applications running on Kubernetes
https://akomljen.com/learn-how-to-troubleshoot-applications-running-on-kubernetes/

Simplified K8s troubleshooting with app-centric abstraction
https://www.hyscale.io/blog/kubernetes-troubleshooting/

Troubleshooting applications In Kubernetes
https://symantec-enterprise-blogs.security.com/blogs/expert-perspectives/troubleshooting-applications-kubernetes

Debug running Pods
https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/debug-application-cluster/debug-running-pod/

Debug Services
https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/debug-application-cluster/debug-service/

### Troubleshoot Cluster Component Failure

Troubleshoot Clusters
https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/debug-application-cluster/debug-cluster/

Cluster troubleshooting guide
http://pwittrock.github.io/docs/tasks/debug-application-cluster/debug-cluster/

Troubleshooting cluster issues
https://docs.platform9.com/kubernetes/troubleshooting/issues-cluster/

Troubleshooting Kubernetes
https://www.linode.com/docs/kubernetes/troubleshooting-kubernetes/

### Troubleshoot Networking


Troubleshooting Kubernetes networking issues
https://gravitational.com/blog/troubleshooting-kubernetes-networking/

How to troubleshoot Kubernetes network issues?
https://blog.appoptics.com/how-to-troubleshoot-kubernetes-network-issues/

Inspect Kubernetes networking
https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-inspect-kubernetes-networking

Troubleshooting Kubernetes networking on Windows
https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/networking-blog/troubleshooting-kubernetes-networking-on-windows-part-1/ba-p/508648

Kubernetes troubleshooting: Networking & DNS connectivity
https://itnext.io/kubernetes-troubleshooting-saga-part-2-networking-and-dns-connectivity-7f11013f6148

Understand & troubleshoot the “Magic” of Kubernetes networking
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=knIJEzTd3kc

Debugging Kubernetes networking
https://www.praqma.com/stories/debugging-kubernetes-networking/

